good evening
it's seven o'clock by my time I don't
know what y'all got but we'll go ahead
y'all hear me you got me live in okay I
want to welcome y'all to the August the
8th Pennsylvania county regular school
board meeting we've got some students to
recognize I see some here tonight you
got me
okay
um we got a few things to take care of
and closed and then we'll get to the
regular business meeting this time I'll
have a roll call please Mr Burton here
Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson here miss
Merricks
here
[Music]
I have a motion to reconvene from
clothes and related action items
[Music]
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson
aye Miss Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr
Moon Mr dolls
again I want to welcome y'all here
tonight
um we got a few things that we're gonna
have motion so we've got to take care of
and at this time I'll have his Hancock
do that
motion to approve the release from
compulsory attendance for eight students
based on religious exemption
second any discussion welcome please Mr
Burton yes Mr Fitzgerald uh Mr Henderson
yes Miss Merritt Mr Mills Mr Moon
aye Mr doc
motion to waive School Board policy gbo
Dash PC retirement for Mrs Donna Hudson
to allow her to retire under the early
retirement incentive program effective
January 1 2024. so moved
accepted
any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton yes Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes Miss
Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr dolls
yes motion to approve the Personnel
changes for August 8 2023 as presented
second
any discussion roll call Mr Burton aye
Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye MS uh
I'm gonna ask our student reps if they
will since y'all are brand new and I
haven't really learned y'all yet if each
one of you will give your name and the
school you represent please
foreign
Mays I represent Dan River High School
okay
I'm Charlise Coles I represent Gretna
High School right
Hallie Holt I represent Tunstall high
school thank y'all and welcome here
tonight are you excited for tomorrow
I am too
and I don't even go to school anymore
I will say I did go to open house to
quite a few yesterday and saw a lot of
students and a lot of teachers and staff
and I think everybody was pretty excited
this year I told the superintendent when
I talked to him yesterday evening that I
didn't run into anybody that says oh
mercy some was over and here we go again
you know everybody was really ready and
excited so I hope we get off to a great
start and I'm looking forward to it
um do we have any additions to the
agenda
I have a motion to approve the agenda as
is
so
second
okay roll call please Mr Burton uh Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Doss yes
consent agenda
movie approved
anybody have any questions on any of the
items in the consent agenda
not roll call please Mr Burton yes
Miss Gerald aye Mr Henderson
s Merricks
or Moon
your dogs
all right we're gonna go to public
presentations and we're going to
recognize some students now miss Petty
you going to do that folks
do you need one of us any of us what
have you got
all right which one you're going with
first
Anderson Mr Hannah
good evening chairman Doss school board
members Dr Jones it's my pleasure to
recognize students in two categories
this evening
beta and FFA we will begin with beta
Tunstall High School principal Brian
Bowles assistant principal Lisa Titan
and assistant principal Dustin Eckles
sponsors Tara Mills and Jennifer Watson
the first student
being recognized I'll read the first
certificate Excellence Pennsylvania
County Schools this certificate of
excellence is presented to the student
in recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
eighth in Agri science at the National
Beta convention granted this Eighth Day
of August 2023 by the Pennsylvania
County School Board
School board chairman Calvin Doss School
Board Vice chair Kelly Merricks and the
first student being recognized is
Mackenzie Harris
[Music]
[Applause]
the next student
but this is a school recognition this
certificate of excellence is presented
to Tunstall High School in recognition
and appreciation for outstanding
achievement for placing ninth in
marketing and Communications at the
National Beta convention granted this
Eighth Day of August 2023 by the
Pittsylvania County School Board
[Music]
[Applause]
the next honoree is Parker Sinclair in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
eighth in recyclable art division one at
the National Beta convention
[Music]
[Applause]
Hannah Johnson in recognition and
appreciation for outstanding achievement
for placing eighth in language arts
sixth grade at the National Junior Beta
convention and this is Chatham Middle
School
and that was all of Chatham High School
congratulations Tulsa High School
so next is Chatham Middle School
yeah you can go
so for Chatham Middle School
principal Junior Bowles assistant
principal Jessica Waller sponsors Ursula
Ken Coleman
and Hannah Johnson is recognized for
placing 8th and language arts sixth
grade at the National Junior Beta
convention
and Hannah could not be with us this
evening so congratulations to Hannah
our next recognitions are for Dan River
Middle School
Dan River Middle School principal Chris
Nick assistant principal
Lauren Bunn
sponsor Crystal Mayhew
the student being recognized as Cassidy
Jones Johnson placing third in
mathematics eighth grade at the National
Junior Beta convention
[Music]
[Applause]
next is Gretna Middle School
principal Dr Thomas Takis assistant
principal Cassandra Pittman
sponsor Frederica younger
the certificate recognizes Kinsley Wertz
in recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
first in black and white photography at
the National Junior Beta convention
[Applause]
foreign
next Mount Airy Elementary School
principal Pam Fields sponsors Chastity
works Kelly Hess Amelia Wilson and
Bernadette Higgins
the student being recognized is Blair
Saunders in recognition and appreciation
for outstanding achievement for placing
second in color photography at the
National Junior Beta convention
[Applause]
thank you
[Music]
thank you to all of our students who
were recognized in the area of beta
let's give them another round of
applause
[Music]
[Applause]
and last this evening I would like to
recognize our Career and Technical
education
FFA students who placed the director of
Career and Technical education is Angela
rigney
first we will recognize
what all the students being recognized
are for chat are from Chatham High
School
Jason Reese principal assistant
principal Angela underpant and our Derek
beard
Jason
Ence sponsor
the first student to be recognized her
certificate reads
this certificate of excellence is
presented to Virginia Burton in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
first in the junior prepared public
speaking contest at the Virginia state
FFA convention granted this Eighth Day
of August 2023 by the Pennsylvania
County School board chairman Calvin Doss
Vice chair Kelly Merricks
congratulations
[Applause]
our next student is Nathan Paris in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
first in the agri-science fair at the
state FFA convention
congratulations
[Applause]
we'd also like to recognize Grace still
in recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
first in the specialty animal production
proficiency award at the Virginia state
FFA convention congratulations
[Applause]
congratulations to all of our FFA
students recognized and to all of our
students recognized this evening for a
job well done
thank you
Middle School she was embarrassed when I
came around but now she can at least
come up to me foreign
thank you Miss Patty
um
just to make you have you got it oh miss
Hancock's got a letter to read for the
Bader
[Music]
note of congratulations on the many
awards received at the recent National
Beta Club National Convention in
Louisville Beta Club members from
Pittsylvania County really put our
schools on the national platform I know
you all are so proud the complete list
of winners are found at the link for
Beta Club and he provided that here but
this will give you an idea of the strong
competition the PCS students faced thank
you all for your ongoing support of beta
clubs in our schools in the Beta Club
Spirit Clark Scott Virginia state
Council chair board of directors
if y'all remember Clark Scott used to
work for us he was a director of middle
schools I believe and retired and he was
a big advocate for beta and has stayed
that even through his retirement so like
she said he's over the state of Virginia
so we appreciate all the work that Mr
Scott has done too he's been a he's one
of the reasons why we're still very
successful with our beta programs
just make you got any new employees you
need to recognize you know okay
at this time we're going to do the
character word of the month Mr
Harrison's gonna come and I'm going to
tell y'all four students over here pay
attention because one of you is going to
be next month I don't know what I don't
know the order
interested okay so you better pay
attention
to Chairman Dallas school board members
into Dr Jones good evening
tomorrow we will officially begin our
2023-24 Academic Year and tonight I will
introduce the character word of the
month of August
our student Representatives will follow
each month with a different character
word I will be focusing on the word
courage the courage to choose grit over
grief
tonight I want to introduce a gentleman
by the name of Alton
ought to excuse me I'll take escape the
Nazi Germany in 1933 with his family
soon after Hitler came into power
they moved North to a city in the
Netherlands where he owned and operated
a manufacturing company over the years
OTA uh watched with concern as Hitler
and the Nazi regime grew more aggressive
and as they invaded the Netherlands
otta was determined to leave Europe with
his family in 1938 he joined over 200
000 Germans who wanted to escape to
United States he reached out to an old
college friend who agreed financially to
support his his family immigration
two years had passed and he still was
awaiting his turn to be interviewed by
the U.S consulate for an immigration
visa surely after the Nazis invaded
Belgium and France the Netherlands U.S
consulate office was bombed and the Visa
applications were destroyed within the
building the state department attempted
to reconstruct the list but for some
reason he nor his family was not listed
shortly after the news worsened as
Germany had ordered for rottingham to
close the U.S
consulate offices and they had to
destroyed all of their visa stamps he
tried to obtain a Cuba Visa but those
efforts also fell as Japan attacked on
Pearl Harbor
for two long years him his family and
his children went into hiding into an
attic above his company's office they
along with four other friends who look
like them on August
of 1944 the Dutch police visited the
facility on a tip that the business had
fraudulently food rationed cars and
illegal employment within the building
all eight individuals were discovered
and they were arrested they were sent to
a different concentration camp in the
region him along with his excuse me his
wife was murdered and his daughters both
died from typhus in the spring of 1945.
he was the only person in his family to
survive the Holocaust
let us remember that carriage's ability
to do something that frightens one
strengthens in the face of pain or grief
in 1947 after the Warhead ended he
returned back to Amsterdam one of his
former employees who helped him by
providing food and supplies while they
were in hiding gave him a book that
belonged to his daughter
after reading the content he decided not
to hide his pain nor his grief but to
publish his daughter's diary the Secret
Annex by Anne Frank
it has silence uh it has since then been
published in at least 70 languages and
have become the most famous testimony to
the Holocaust
Mr Frank died on August the 20th 1980 at
the age of 91. this is 35 years after he
lost his entire family Mr Frank's lesson
to us is that when you seek shelter and
life gives you a closed door you have
the courage to find another one that may
be open when there is no door that is
open for you then you might have to wait
even for two years that is when your
courage has to be temporarily modified
and you have to be encouraged Mr Frank
took a grief and gave the world a gift
his daughter's voice the words when she
was frightened I hope that this story
will inspire each of us to give a
courageous Spirit to continue to provide
our students a positive and excellent
Educational Opportunity this school year
thank you and have a good evening
thank you Mr Harrison
okay up next we have a Public
Presentation of Miss Crystal Lawrence is
she here
nope
you're still here
okay
how about Miss White from off season you
here okay
chairman Doss
Vice chairwoman Merricks Mr Mills Mr
Henderson Mr Fitzgerald
Mr Moon
Mr Burton
and Mrs Hancock
and good evening Dr Jones
my name is Delilah white and I serve as
the executive director of off season a
non-profit organization designed to
elevate the skills performance and
outcomes of athletes in Pennsylvania
county and Danville Virginia
registered as a 501c3 public charity
off-season's purpose is to empower
athletes through holistic Sports
Development training and education
our mission is to develop the best
athletes in Virginia starting right here
at home
athletes who are mentally physically and
spiritually equipped for competition and
for life
with me tonight is the core leadership
team of off-season education director
Jennifer white Oliver
Sports director Renee shepelman
lead sports trainer Kimberly shaver
and chief development officer
responsible for Grants and resources
Andrea Robbins
on July 13th Mrs White Oliver and I met
with Mrs Craig and Mr Eaton to discuss
partnership opportunities
and how off-season can be a strategic
partner with supporting your Sports
Development efforts in the county
schools
after learning more about the challenges
needs and goals we offered a partnership
opportunity to create and Implement a
sports development program for
Pennsylvania County Middle School
students
to make this happen we would apply for a
grant from the Community Foundation of
the Dan River Region
the grant would provide the startup
resources and materials needed to
implement the program
in January of 2024
we sincerely thank you for your intent
to partner with off season for the
sports development program and I'm here
to tell you more about the Warriors
program one that we designed
specifically for Pittsylvania County
Middle School students and our upcoming
actions on our joint initiative
the Warriors program is an after-school
Sports Development training and
education experience for Pennsylvania
County Middle School students
the goals of the program are to increase
students interest and participation in
their own interscholastic School
athletic programs
to develop well-rounded student athletes
and Community citizens and to provide
extracurricular School based
athletic academic personal development
and nutrition education for students
on Tuesdays and Thursdays as you can see
on the screen from 3 30 to 6 PM middle
school students at all four of the
county middle schools will be able to
participate in football soccer or
basketball Sports Development activities
for one hour after school with an
experienced compassionate and selfless
sports trainer
afterwards they'll eat a nutritious
snack while learning about Sports
Nutrition and then complete one hour of
academic and personal development
activities with a certified K-12
educator
the program will be offered at each
middle school for one consecutive month
eight sessions will be completed in the
spring of 2024 at each school and again
in the fall
for a total of 64 sessions during the
year
the maximum number of participants for
each Sports track is 15 students
that means a total of 45 students per
school will be able to participate in
the program each term
therefore by the end of 2024 the
Warriors program will have provided 360
middle school students with holistic
extracurricular Sports Development and
education
the primary outcomes of the Warriors
program is to really help Middle School
students parents and community members
adapt to and embrace the new sports
programs that you have made available to
them this year in the middle schools
we are here to support and ensure the
sustainability of the Middle School
inter-scholastic athletic programs
because we share a mutual goal of
overcoming the Sports Development gap
for students and athletes in
Pennsylvania county
we recognize that PCS middle schools are
faced with sports trainers and Equipment
shortages with the start of the new
program
through this grant partnership
off-season is working to fulfill these
needs
if funded off season will provide
overall implementation and management of
the Warriors program
and PCs will provide use of school
athletic facilities and classroom spaces
as needed
with your help thank you chairman Doss
and Mrs Hancock
off season did successfully submit the
Grant application to the Community
Foundation on July 27th
first responses from this from the
foundation happen in late September
if we receive a response The Next Step
will be to get back in touch with you
to coordinate the Warriors program
intake process
for students and their families
if we receive a positive response we
have program intake planned for October
through November of this year
so that we can start the program on time
as scheduled on January 23rd 2024 at
Gretna Middle School
if this is the case we will require your
guidance and assistance to ensure
successful program intake at each Middle
School
final Grant notification letters are
sent in December
in closing I do have good news
even if the grant is not approved off
season is able to facilitate this
extracurricular Sports development
program for students for a reasonable
fee of eighty dollars per student
once again thank you for your work to
overcome the Sports Development Gap here
in Pennsylvania county
to elevate our schools sports programs
and our children I am delighted to
answer any questions that you may have
anyone have any questions
thank you ma'am we appreciate you coming
I hope you get your Grant and if you do
we look forward to working with you
you know as you say we're trying to
start up our middle school programs
we're going to need help yes sir thank
you chairman thank you Mrs Hancock
okay next we have the Pea and I know I
saw Dr Jones sitting in the back
get you a good night's sleep tonight Dr
Johnson you got all them students coming
in the morning
yeah
there you go
I hope you're ready well I was born
ready you know I I said early in the
thing I went and visited a lot of rooms
yesterday a lot of teachers and everyone
I asked that's the first question I said
are you ready and I didn't get a no I
didn't get a single no so it was very
positive and the teachers were very very
ready and and very happy to be going
back to school yes sir and that that
seems to be the consistent Factor
um
like one of the things I think we we do
as as teachers is you get in the mindset
it's going to be what's going to be
we're going to make the best of what we
have of what we got and go with it
because as I was taught in undergraduate
school they come in regardless if you
ready or not so you better get that way
because you only get one good start and
that's when they come through the door I
know I'm personally excited so during
open house yesterday I actually had
students visiting from 10 30 because I
actually had our uh the FFA officers
there to work our table and to meet and
greet with parents and my last child
left at seven o'clock
and I physically had people all day long
um and and you could see the energy
level and you know that you can you
could feel it and there's a sense of
positivity one by which it's fresh it's
new where are those good things that I
can get back into what are some of the
new exciting opportunities like this
potentially that I can I can take a part
of you know and when you're offering
that and you can see that regardless if
it's elementary middle or high that
teachers are ready administrators are
we're all ready to start and embark on
something new that was very clear
yesterday it was also clear today in our
pea Blitz
um I do want to say it's just
it's a beautiful thing to see the
excitement in my colleagues and to know
we're all in this for y'all hi welcome
congratulations on your term of office
right so in T minus nine months y'all
are going to be entering into the real
world yeah any teachers over there
potential teachers
okay we need to work harder for her work
harder okay commitment at least pick up
here pick a friend and be like you
should be a teacher because you're
really awesome at that right
can you do that can you make that
commitment
pick one friend and compliment them on
being a teacher because somebody
complimented you on whatever you plan on
doing which sparked the love for where
you're going
right and that's really what we're doing
tomorrow and it happened today matter of
fact I do want to say thank you to all
the administrators for our PA Blitz
today every school that was visited warm
welcoming inviting I want to say that
I'm going to get in the mic and say
thank you PCS administrators absolutely
beautiful
buildings look awesome lots of themes
when we got to meet all of the
individuals there to be it our building
reps members potential members
everybody had nothing but glowing
remarks to say that same level of energy
things are coming in good and I did
promise one school to give them a shout
out okay and it's Gretna elementary
school so at this time thank you Mrs
Paula Cox and your staff on being
phenomenal amazing human beings and I'm
going to tell you why their entire
faculty and staff actually met with us
in the cafeteria
engaging questions talking about future
endeavors where we're going it was
awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome
and the smiles the joys even though we
have struggles right and we talk about
struggles you could tell it's like we're
going to do what's right and what's Best
by our children and the leadership there
is just it's beautiful so I love
elementary school because it's like the
beginning of things and I really I'm
telling you I love going into her school
today
and actually
I gotta ask y'all a question
are you feeling groovy about learning
because you should be that is actually
the theme that Mrs Cox has in her school
and and think about the grooviness of
learning so Dr Jones are you groovy
about learning
are you are you missed calls I mean come
on you got to get with the feel of
learning we all do right that's my
school right I'm telling you is it not
phenomenal I mean with the flowers and
the pictures and the posts yeah
right and I mean when you feel that in
the very beginning you want to carry
that consistently throughout
um and and that's really what we're
leaning on you all to do as you make
your decisions throughout the year to be
groovy about see I'm using that right
now be groovy about learning right and
getting the vibe in the feel and the
flow of it so you're all like oh I
didn't think about it like that it is
it's a Vibe right energy is a Vibe so um
I want you to show off your excitement I
know y'all were talking about your
excitement and that you're excited for
tomorrow you said you're not even in the
classroom you're excited exactly right
right we want to keep that up because
like Thanksgiving is coming y'all and
probably around like I don't know
October or Columbus Day where's
and yeah we will be but we still want to
carry on that level of excitement right
and get in the groove of doing and
feeling positive which will carry
through
right and it's a spirit it's something
that is it's very elusive but you know
it when you see it and you want to
capture it
so in essence and I've done this every
year that I've been here and it's
anything good with teaching what you
begin with you end with it's called
bookending and every school year that
I've stood at this microphone I've given
a prayer over the school division
and today will not be any different
because that spirit is something that we
want to have positive we want that
feeling to remain because we know so
many things in society can dampen that
so when we walk into things with
wide-eyed openness we want to remain in
that same spirit
so we will ask that we be
what is needed
and if you need someone to trust
let you be the person that is
trustworthy
and if you need sympathy
be the person to sympathize
and if you need love
which every single human being does
let you be the person that loves
in full measure not part not cold not
half not none but all
and let you not anger easily
and just be just
permit your Justice to be tempered in
your mercy
and show Grace
to yourself and others
and when you stand before others you
need to look strong and be good and be
honest and loving
and be strong and good and honest and
loving as others look to you
and what you do
for they learn from you and what you do
help and counseling to the anxious
crack the covering of the child and
temper the rambunctiousness of the
gentle attitude
look for justice and peace and harmony
for all Beyond self
permit yourself to only
show and teach the truth
and Inspire everyone
so learning will not cease at any door
May the lessons that you teach
and show others make their lives happy
and fruitful
and permit those lessons to not stop at
your door
in this we ask As you move forward that
you in all things be trustworthy be
truthful do it in love and be in peace
thank you thank you and good luck
tomorrow
all right we're going to have an
operational update for Mr Scott
good evening although tonight is the eve
of the start of another school year the
work of our school divisions various
departments has continued without
stopping throughout the summer the
ongoing work of the school safety audit
process continues to guide our divisions
efforts in refining its crisis
management plan and then targeting any
necessary changes in regulations
revisions in crisis management protocols
and or Associated Capital Improvements
to enhance school safety
during the first 30 days of school each
School in the division will conduct
weekly fire and lockdown drills in
accordance with statutory requirements
these drills will continue on a monthly
basis for the balance of the school year
additionally at greater intervals
throughout the year schools will
practice their emergency School Bus
evacuation earthquake and tornado
responses school and division level
Personnel Monitor and document these
drills which are conducted on announced
and unannounced bases the routine
schedule According to which our school
system's safety related exercises are
conducted is designed to assist in
identifying needed changes and
improvements in our crisis management
protocols and to provide opportunity for
reflection upon best practices to assist
in the evaluation of schools crisis
preparedness the operations Department
conducts annual school safety audits
which are scheduled to begin later this
semester
following the completion of each audit
division level staff complete written
reports to document in detail the
findings of each school's audit and to
process and to propose plans for
addressing any safety related issues
these reports also serve as guidance
documents in applying for state school
security equipment grants and in
planning for related Capital
Improvements as a result of school
security equipment grant funding awarded
in recent years the division has been
able to make numerous improvements in
its schools also in conjunction with its
continuing efforts to revise its crisis
response plans and protocols to best
protect the safety of students faculty
and staff our division conducted a
full-scale mass casualty drill at Gretna
Middle School on Monday May 30 excuse me
Monday July 31st Gretna High School in
gretn elementary school served as
staging support and reunification
locations for this exercise
these schools close proximity to local
fire and rescue headquarters and
trauma-equipped medical facilities made
them ideally suited for use in these
capacities approximately
170 administrators teachers and support
staff members from schools across the
division actively took part by assuming
the roles of Administrators teachers
students and parents for this simulation
a crisis response training event of this
magnitude had never before been
conducted in our County nor in much of
our region the FBI the Virginia State
Police the Virginia Department of
Transportation the Virginia Department
of Criminal Justice Services local
health care service providers numerous
fire and rescue departments and local
and Regional media Outlets joined our
school system and our sheriff's
department and the school in conducting
this exercise
I offer special thanks to sheriff Mike
Taylor deputy sheriff Billy Cheney and
to our superintendent for their work in
making this event possible
properly maintained infrastructure also
plays a critical role in protecting the
safety of all stakeholders in our
buildings the following information
pertains to maintenance projects
currently underway or recently completed
in the division this summer Cruz
undertook the replacement of roofs at
Southside Elementary School Twin Springs
Elementary School the division's four
middle schools and hurt elementary
schools cafeteria with the exception of
the installation of trim at some of
these sites all work has been completed
prior to the start of school also
workers completed the Kentuck Elementary
HVAC project and the Pennsylvania Korea
and Technical Center HVAC and roofing
project although the full automate
automation of all HVAC controls and the
installation of trim and ceiling tiles
has yet to be finalized the completion
of these projects marks the coming to
fruition of two major multi-year
endeavors
in addition to these large-scale
projects countless smaller projects have
been completed at schools throughout our
division beginning in September work
will begin on the installation of
anti-ballistic film on entryways at all
school buildings additionally during the
course of the fall semester design work
will begin on security vestibules which
will be built at all elementary and
middle schools we appreciate the
diligence and untiring efforts of Mr
Mike Hudson our director of Maintenance
and his staff in maintaining safe and
up-to-date facilities
throughout the summer members of the
information technology department in
support of the divisions one-to-one
student to device initiative have
prepared Chromebook devices for
redistribution to students in grades 9
through 12. additionally technicians
have installed 100 interactive panels in
our County's four high schools and are
currently working on the next phase of
interactive panels at elementary and
middle schools Department Personnel have
also labored to complete numerous
revisions to the school systems student
information system
our information technology department
employees work continually to support
instruction and to advance security
systems and protocols to mitigate
students and employees exposure to cyber
threats
Mrs Emily Reynolds director of
Information Technology and her staff are
commended for their work in these areas
and finally the transportation
department continues to work diligently
to provide safe and efficient
transportation to all students despite
the ongoing Nationwide school bus driver
shortage our school systems drivers
continue to demonstrate outstanding
dedication to ensuring that our routes
are covered I especially thank our
Mechanics for taking the time to make
sure that our Fleet remains safe and
other transportation department staff
especially our Transportation
Specialists Miss Debbie Shelton for the
countless hours that they have dedicated
during the course of the summer to
ensure that our students Transportation
needs are met
seven new trainees entered the ranks of
our division's drivers this summer
several drivers are temporarily driving
double routes and 10 teachers across the
division who also hold school bus driver
certifications or driving buses to
ensure that our 173 routes are covered
are there any questions regarding this
or any other operations related
information
anybody have any questions Mr Scott
I know there's a lot of work going on
yes sir a lot of work come in commend
you and your staff must Hudson and all
who have contributed to that because I
know it's been a short summer and a lot
of work thank you thank you
all right does anybody have any
questions on the remaining death reports
okay
we have a residential Governor's School
on the death reports
first this is kind of person with me
we we had five children from this area
that went to residential governance we
wanted us by our senior Representatives
I had a granddaughter with
the second or third day that they were
there they took a trip for an outing and
had an accident on the way back
four students from transport
transport to the hospital to the
checking two of them was out there that
one was my granddaughter and another my
granddaughter they were just checking
her for a concussion the other child had
some injuries that
that they took care of and the reason I
go to this detail
everything's fine everything went well
the parents went to get them they
wouldn't come home
they were enjoying the Governor's School
so if they were there for a month at the
end of the month my daughter goes to
pick up the granddaughter she didn't
want to leave
and the reason being
it was challenging for them it stretched
their abilities
they were concerned they couldn't get
the work done they worked over and
hardly but they made it they made it
through and did all of it and we're
proud of what they did I I have
heard of this residential gun school for
years the first time I've had somebody
directly involved but that is what we've
kind of always strived for in this
county is more rigor
and stretch our stretch the ability of
our students
and for the most case in my experiences
when you do that our students are more
productive and they enjoy their
education more
and this came to light to me in talking
to these students the special my
granddaughter after they had gone
but it concerns me sometimes what we
look at now
we recently changed our grading schedule
our grading Point schedule
and I'm afraid sometimes that uh
for a better word better like lack of
better words we lower our standards so
we can have a Level Playing Field with
others I would rather others look at us
if we could do something better than the
others and we encourage our kids to do
more but it made my uncle prayer the
fact that talk to them even though they
worked hard they had some hiccups and
had some disadvantages they still want
to complete the work and wanted to stay
and they succeed thank you
any other comments on any of the deaths
reports
okay if not Dr Jones
yes sir I'm going to change the order
and I'm going to go first to to
letting you all know that school be in
some more I think we've talked about
that but also I'd like to thank central
office staff Mr Scott and his staff I'd
like to thank Mrs petting her staff Dr
haymore and her staff and Mr Mayhew and
his staff for the good work that they
did over the summer in preparation for
this school year I'd also like to thank
our teachers for the good work that
they've done really over the summer
because many of our teachers work
throughout the summer if they're not
working at some job or working with
students somehow they're surely planning
and preparing for the school year you
know while teachers have a 10-month kind
of contract they are surely working 12
months a year so we greatly appreciate
their good work and our staff is what
makes Pennsylvania County Schools a good
place to learn and work and it's what
they do each and every day and it just
going back and looking at the summer and
what all we have accomplished this
summer whether it's maintenance or
whether it's summer school or whether
it's the regional governance school that
we host or it's a residential government
school that we send our children to
summer school graduation you know a lot
goes on and and I think our staff we do
it for the students of Pennsylvania
county and I feel very very proud of
what we accomplished in Pennsylvania
county we look at these young people
right here our seniors a great
representation of our School Division so
I'd like to start by saying that this
this evening
uh also I'd like to share with you some
things that that I think I'd like to
bring you up to speed on the first is
information regarding the sales tax
referendum uh right now uh Mr Hudson
is in the planning with Mr Scott are
planning for the utilization of those
funds you know that the the revenues
began coming in July 1 of 23 we're going
to monitor that with our County to see
how the revenues track in then that will
give us a good indication of what that
will look like we'll work with our
finance department and Mrs Worley to to
plan out how we will seek those funds
and utilize those funds to to to do
capital projects particularly on our
elementary schools we're going to look
at safety vestibules in our 10
elementary schools and for middle
schools we're going to look at
eliminating our mobile units and
bringing the students inside with indoor
classrooms connecting our gyms our
detached gyms
and then installing Windows and and new
HVAC units across the division so a lot
of work will take place Mr Scott
mentioned the work that is taking place
this summer in the maintenance we've
done a whole lot this summer Mr Hudson
has been very extremely busy something
that we're going to do this fall is
we're going to again I think I'm going
to
reiterate some things that Mr Scott said
but we're going to install ballistic
tape up in our schools that will deter
entrance a quick entry into our schools
another safety matter that we've
discussed and we're going to implement
another item I'd like to bring in
addition kind of bring you up to speed
on where we are with Middle School
sports
our first volleyball games will take
place of last week in August
appreciate the good work of our Middle
School staff principals our central
office staff and maintenance and making
sure that that can take place I provided
in your packet some information
regarding the expenditures to ensure
that that we have first class
opportunities for our students in both
volleyball and basketball this year if
you have any questions regarding that
please let me know we still have to
install the pots in our three high
schools and we have a volleyball system
the complete system that has not been
delivered yet to to Chatham middle
school but we've done a whole lot we've
had a lot of accomplishing a short
amount of time regarding that
I'd like to draw your attention to um
legislative advocacy conference
September the 21st at Chesterfield
Career and Technical Center
of the 2023 School Board representative
Workshop is on November the 15th
and the annual conference is November
the 15th through the 17th
and Mr Dawson I think that's all I had
this evening
all right board members Miss Hancock
needs a list of those who will be
attending the annual conference in
November I know I'm going
what's the moon you going
mayor Mr Burton uh I'm not sure yet put
me down okay
Fitzgerald
thank you
I said 15 through the 17th
always a week before Thanksgiving
hey Mrs
not yet I think we're going to be down
to where we normally stay at next to The
Whaling Company right
yes but also Mr dolls you all have an
invitation that Mrs Hancock did
regarding the legislative practice and
that's there at your places as well
that's the 18th right it's the eighth
Friday the 8th
all right
and we'll move on there we have no
unfinished business under new business
um I ask that you'll prove that employee
health care savings account and we've
done that for several years now I
believe and you're asking to continue
that practice correct have a motion to
approve that
okay I have a motion in a second any
other discussion on that
proton Please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Dallas yes
and then we need to approve our amended
budget there's that's the one you talked
about the last time correct it really
hasn't changed any since then correct
okay yeah a second
second
any discussion any questions from MS
warley
no I'll make a comment though I read
something today that they were at least
talking about it but I don't believe
that
inside
yeah I've kind of lost hope Mr Burton I
think we've gotten to this part of the
year and they haven't agreed so I'm
really thinking they're not going to
agree on anything this year actually
maybe January yeah maybe once the new
people going onboard I guess
all right I have a motion saying we need
to roll call on that
yes I'm sorry Mr Burton
Mr Fitzgerald yes Miss Henderson yes Ms
Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr Dallas
yes
next I may ask for a waiver for facility
usage I think originally in our packet
was three high schools it is now all
four high schools at the chamber wants
to do candidate Forums on to have a
motion to waver that be I'll make that
motion
second any question on that it's for all
fours high schools Pro call please Mr
Burton no Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson
yes Miss Merricks yes Mr mayles yes Mr
Moon Mr Dobbs yes motion passes with six
to one vote okay and then we have three
School Board policies I'm going to ask
that we waver the first reading and
approve them on this one
first one is igda
the second one is
j-e-d-p-c and the third one is jppc
move we approved okay
second
of a motion a second to approve the
three policies on the on this reading
let me roll call please Mr Burton uh Mr
Fitzgerald uh Miss Henderson aye Ms
Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr Dallas
yes gentlemen that's all I have baby
so move
second roll call please Mr Burton
aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Tim Ms Merricks Mr mayles yes Mr Moon
Mr dolls yes thank all y'all for being
here tonight we're looking forward for
school starting tomorrow and I hope
everybody has a safe week
and we'll see you next month
foreign